---
title: CSCI 35500 SP 2026
author: Course homepage
date: "Last updated: 2025-12-27"
css: "../style.css"
---

# Course content

- [Syllabus](syllabus.pdf) [PDF]
- [Lecture notes and materials](csci35500_lectures.html)
- [Homework assignments](csci35500_homework.html)
- [Projects](csci35500_projects.html)

# Course information

-   Course name: **CSCI 35500: Intro to Linear Programming**
-   Course mode of instruction: **In person**
-   Class days and times: **Mon/Wed 7:00-8:15 PM**
-   Class location: **TBD**
-   Prerequisites: 
    -   CSCI 127 - Introduction to computer science (Python)
    -   CSCI 150 - Discrete structures
    -   MATH 160 - Matrix algebra

# Instructor contact information

-   Instructor name: Ben Rosenberg
-   Instructor email address: benjamin.rosenberg24@myhunter.cuny.edu
-   Office hours: **TBD**
-   Department contact information: Please see [https://hunter.cuny.edu/artsci/computer-science/contact/](https://hunter.cuny.edu/artsci/computer-science/contact/)

If you need to contact me, please reach out via email. Please put "CSCI 355" in the subject to make it easier to find your emails.

# Course description

- **Course Description**: This course provides an introduction to linear, integer linear, and quadratic programming, focusing on optimization techniques and their applications. Students will learn to formulate, analyze, and solve optimization problems using both theoretical and computational approaches.
- **Learning Goals**: By the end of the course, students will:
  -  Develop the ability to formulate linear, integer linear, and quadratic programming models for optimization problems.
  -  Gain a solid understanding of the theoretical foundations, including:
     -  Algorithms for solving linear, integer linear, and quadratic programs.
     -  Matrix and vector representations of linear, integer linear, and quadratic programs.
     -  The importance of convexity in optimization and the expressive power of linear, integer linear, and quadratic programming.
  -  Implement and solve linear, integer linear, and quadratic programming models using the OR-Tools Python library.

# Course calendar

Relevant dates:

- 2026-01-26: First day of class for CSCI 35500
- 2026-02-16: No class
- 2026-04-01: No class (spring break)
- 2026-04-06: No class (spring break)
- 2026-04-08: No class (spring break)
- 2026-05-13: Last day of class for CSCI 35500

Exam dates will be added here when available.

Assignment due dates will be posted on their respective pages.

For course meeting time and location, see the "Course information" section above.

This calendar may be out of date. For up-to-date information on academic dates see the Hunter website:

> [https://hunter.cuny.edu/students/registration/academic-calendar/](https://hunter.cuny.edu/students/registration/academic-calendar/)

# Course structure

Expected lecture topics (mostly in order):

- Linear algebra review
- Linear programming, modeling problems as LPs
- Using the OR-Tools Python module to solve optimization problems
- LP solving methods and their differences
- Integer programming, solving integer programs with branch and bound
- SAT reduction to ILP, demonstration of NP-completeness
- Modeling general discrete problems as ILPs
- Common ILP models, including the Traveling Salesman Problem
- Quadratic programming, QP modeling requirements
- QP solving methods and tools
- Convex programming hierarchy

Lecture material is subject to change. Lectures may not align with classes.

There will probably be around 3 or 4 homework assignments, and 2 or 3 projects.

# Grading

- Homework: 15%
- Projects: 15%
- Midterm exam: 30%
- Final exam: 40%

Per CUNY guidelines, this course uses the grading structure given here to map numerical course grades to letter grades: [https://hunter.cuny.edu/students/registration/records-and-transcripts/grading-structure/](https://hunter.cuny.edu/students/registration/records-and-transcripts/grading-structure/)
